>> Student: So I have a question,
when using TRPC,
how would you combine
the two of those together?
>> Scott Moss: That's a great question.
So, it's tough [LAUGH],
because I'm doing that in production.
And the question you just asked me is
something I ask myself every single day,
how do I do this?
Why am I doing this?
I'll just tell you how I'm doing it.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: And
you can decide if it's valuable for you.
So what we do is, let's pick a page,
I'll pick this page here, okay?
So here, I have the data, right?
This is literally what I do on my app,
I do an initial request.
I'll get the user,
I'll get the initial data for this.
I'll immediately do something like this.
I'll have something here that's home.
This is the actual home right here.
And this is gonna be from components,
slash, the actual home component.
That's not what I call it,
but you get the point.
And then there's nothing here.
There's absolutely nothing here.
And what I do instead, is I'll say
actual home, and I'll pass in that data.
So whatever data I got here,
I'm passing it directly in here.
So in this case, it'll be that.
This component is a client component.
It's a client component
that takes this prop.
And in the case of TRPC,
which uses react-query,
in that hook where you do the use-query,
or in TRPC's case,
it's trpc.the-name-of-your-query.use-query
or
something like that, you can pass
the options object that says initial data.
Which is like,
what is the initial data for this query?
Before it even makes the query,
I pass this into it.
So what I'm doing is I'm making sure
whatever my server component queries,
returns the exact same thing that
the TRPC query in here would return.
So I can just populate the TRPC's cache
with whatever the initial render of
this is.
And then from there, it's all TRPC,
whether it's mutations,
whether it's queries, it's all just TRPC.
I don't use what I just showed you guys.
>> Student: Got it.
>> Scott Moss: For a few reasons.
I didn't know how to do it
when I first made the app.
[LAUGH] That's the biggest one.
Two, it's just a lot more work,
in my opinion.
Right now, when it comes to
things that are very hyperactive,
are hyper interactive, so polling,
infinite scrolling,
WebSockets, things like that.
It's just a lot harder to do
in this world of caching,
mutating, invalidating the cache.
That process is just a lot
more to think about,
the more interactive your app becomes.
But when it's a form, or a simple create
like we just did, yeah, pretty simple.
So because of that,
we don't want everyone on the team to be
an expert on when to make that decision.
We just decided just use TRPC for
everything because that works.
It's fine, it's not that big of a deal.
And also, we're an app, we're a dashboard,
it doesn't really matter.
But if we were more of a static
site with some interaction,
I would probably lean towards more
doing all the server-side stuff.
Because if I'm New York Times,
I'm not doing TRPC, I'm doing this,
because this is all server-side.
TRPC is very client-side, it's very heavy.
That's gonna be slow on people's phones,
compared to doing something server-side.
Whereas none of that JavaScript gets
loaded up because it's all on a server.
So it really just depends
on the experience, I think.
What's the relationship between
useTransition and suspense, or
is there one?
I don't think they have any relation.
I don't think there's any relation
between what a transition does and
what suspense does.
Because you don't have to use
a promise inside of a transition.
You can do whatever you want.
A transition is just saying, this is
something that normally affects the UI,
which typically is a state change or
something like that, and
I don't want it to,
that doesn't have to be asynchronous.
A suspense is like, here's a promise, I
want to wait for this promise to resolve.
In the meantime, show this thing,
that's a suspense, and
that is more of something
to do with network layer.
It's more aware of what's actually
happening, it's more purposefully built.
startTransition is a generic function that
just opts you out of locking down the UI.
The best way I can describe it is
request animation frame for state.
That's the best way I can describe it,
request animation frame.
If you don't know what that is, it's like,
you would use that to make
your animation smooth.
Do that 60 milliseconds to get 60 frames
per second, it's like that, but for state.
So that's the best way I can describe it.
But right now, Next.js is using,
and it's not their fault,
React just came out with this.
And it has a useTransition, but
now you can do async things.
So now you can't await that.
So we can't do that right now.
So earlier, when I was like, yeah, you
probably want to be able to, where was it?
Here, I was like, you probably
want to be able to return this and
get the results of it to do something.
Well, we can't in our
current implementation,
because I can't await
this in a transition.
Where's that happening now?
As far as I know, this is not async yet,
unless they updated it,
I don't think it is.
And if it is, I haven't used it yet.
So I don't feel comfortable teaching it,
but
I do feel comfortable talking about it,
and this is what's coming.
You can async to startTransmission,
you can await a promise, and
you can get whatever you want back,
and you can do all the things here.
So I think that closes the loop for
a lot of things as well.
These are the things that I'm talking
about that makes it a lot easier to use
this technique now, this cache
server-side query, bust the cache.
Now, these are cool,
cuz I'm inside of a client component,
this is a client component.
I'm using a server mutation,
a server action, and
I'm getting the result right back here for
my client.
I can bound it to a state,
so now my JSX can see it.
Yeah, this kind of closes the loop, right?
So this does a lot of things for you,
as far as being able to use this without
having to go through all these hoops.
So it's getting better, but, like I said,
Next.js was waiting on React
to do a lot of these things.
I really like the approach
that they're taking.
They're like, we just want to make
what React is doing easier, but
we're not gonna introduce all
this crazy stuff to you guys.
We're just gonna build opinions on
the foundations that they built.
And I think that's the great way to do it.
But sometimes that just means Next.js
ends up releasing things super early,
and people are just like, what's going on?
But reality is, they can't do anything,
they have to wait until
React fix this stuff.